You'll also notice around here, look,
update didn't even make it
as the number one, garbage.
Okay, so we have a garbage problem, yes.
We aren't quite sure where
the garbage is coming from.
Looks like it's coming
from a lot of places.
So we know that all of
these are contributing
to this final number right here, right?
This is part of it.
But what I see right here, right below
update, is register destroy hook, okay?
If you don't know that's more than we were
getting into the idea of node internal
async hooks.
You want to guess what that's related to?
>> Promises
>> Promises.
Node has a lot of stuff
look at this a init,
which is 4% of the time that's on top.
Guess what it's linked to?
More async hooks.
Okay, what about destroy async hooks?
Okay, play game.
That's us.
Okay, that's us.
This run micro tasks.
Also it's in some sort of task
use probably not promises.
Maybe that's something else..
List on time out.
Okay, this is some sort
of timers internal.
We are using a timeout.
That's 2% of the time that it's doing
something and that involves a timeout.
We have these admit hooks again,
async hooks,
that's something we have
a before async hooks.
We have promise init hook
destroy tracking 1% of the time.
Again, promises, promises,
async hook, async hook, async hook.
So there's quite a bit of code in
here that's actually looking to be,
the majority of code that's
executing is related to promises,
and we also see a lot in memory
being related to promises.
So how much do you wanna bet that promises
looking at both memory, which is like 20,
30% of the time.
And in the code, which is looking
literally like 20, 30% of the time,
this could be big W.
I would say that this is probably
gonna be a big W and I have no idea,
cuz I've never done this before.
So we're gonna find out now live,
completely unpracticed.
All right, so
where are we creating these promises at?
How I'm going to make sure
everything's all nice.
Well, remember our tick function is
creating a promise every time we do
a tick.
So let's just do a little
bit of math here.
Just a quick little bit of math.
We'll do it in bash to make bad cop happy.
We have a tick approximately every 16
milliseconds or 60 frames a second.
We had, say, 1,000 games running.
So we're doing, and
then we're going to do that.
Let's see.
So yeah, that's, yeah,
that's pretty much it.
So that's 60,000 promises a second, right?
That's a lot of promises per second.
We're creating a ton of promises
per second, but wait, there's more.
Remember that is this promise right
here that we've created by awaiting.
Oopsies, wrong one.
But inside of here, if we sleep at all,
we actually create another
promise inside of that.
So really we're looking at potentially
about 120,000 promises per second.
So that's a lot promises.
That is a lot of things happening.
And not only that, but
promises have effects elsewhere.
And so
let's kind of look at those effects.
Let's see, I wonder if I have yeah,
let's talk about the event loop for
one quick second.
So what I'm gonna do is I'm gonna kind of
give us a basic intro into the event loop.
You can imagine the event loop
something like a loop, right?
What ends up happening is that every
single time there is something to execute
it is added to a list, and this list could
have several items in it, all right?
So we have a wake up from V8 saying, hey,
you have data on your WebSocket,
you need to handle this.
It doesn't just exit.
It doesn't just interrupt
your program running.
Because your program's running JavaScript.
JavaScript is not multithreaded.
It will never be multithreaded.
It is never meant to be multi threaded.
It is just single execution.
That's how it always has worked.
And so even though there's things
happening multithreaded underneath,
such as reading the network,
and doing all that,
it doesn't mean JavaScript
is multithreaded.
Maybe we have some data out on the socket.
Okay, we need to go read that.
Now we also have, say, one of those tick
promises that need to be woken up from.
We also have another tick promise
that's gonna be woken up from, right?
We can have a bunch of these and
as we read one piece of data for
us to be able to read that
data nothing can be executing.
And how you leave the process event loop
or how you go back to the promise event
loop is that whatever is
running needs to stop running.
And then once nothing else is running,
execution is handed back
to the process event loop.
We grab the latest one off the list, and
now this is the thing that's executing
while we wait, and maybe much, much more.
Maybe some more ticks happened in
between there while we're waiting.
It reads this,
the WS library reads in that data, kind of
creates the frames, makes everything nice.
And then, no some more data comes in but
where is that more data at?
Well it's going to be down here, right?
It's gonna be somewhere else,
it's going to be way down here.
It has to wait for
the other things to execute before it
gets its chance to execute in JavaScript.
So everything gets in this
nice little line to execute.
So maybe we didn't get
a complete frame here.
So we have to wait until
the next piece of data.
So that we're going to go here.
We're going to execute.
We're going to update the game, and then
we get a chance in here to finally go and
go, okay, now let's finish off this frame.
Okay, we got a frame,
now the player can shoot.
We're gonna add it to the queue and we're
gonna wait for the next tick to happen, so
that it can shoot.
And so you just got to always kind of keep
that in your head is that it's not free,
promises are not free because one
thing that's really intense about
promises is every single dot then or
dot catch happens on the next cycle.
It adds itself back to the event queue.
There is just not a way to execute
through a promise chain synchronously.
And so that has real impact.
So if you go one, two, three, four, and
you have four promises that are executing
synchronously and you're getting thousands
of requests, that one, two, three,
four will be interleaved with
everybody else's one, two,
three, four despite the fact
that maybe it is synchronous.
And so maybe that one executes and
then 1,000 other people's ones execute.
Then you're two executes and 1,000 other
people's two executes and then you're
three executes, it can have adverse
effects onto how things are performing.
And it adds just more overhead.
Not only that, but node,
because it is older,
it has had more time in the ecosystem, it
has a lot more tools for introspection and
being able to tell what's happening.
Datadog, I know,
does things with the async hooks.
They're able to link into node and
tell what's happening underneath the hood.
Bun does not do that,
does not have as comprehensive hooks.
Therefore, theirs does appear, my goodness
that's a weird phrase theirs does.
Buns ability to process through promises
it appears to be significantly faster.
Is it actually faster or do they just
not have as comprehensive hooks?
I don't know yet.
Time will tell.
I'm sure over the course of the next
year we should see a slowdown because as
they add more and more ability, but
is it gonna be an equal slowdown?
May be may be not, I have no idea.
But for nodes, promise and
async hooks just aren't super fast.
They're working on it now I have seen
a lot of people talking about it.
So will this change?
Probably.
How much will it change?.
I don't know, but it will change.
So there you go.
That's kind of like some background
knowledge you should have in your
head whenever you're doing something.
You should always imagine how concurrent
program works in JavaScript that it's
always stacking up against each other.
So no promise is free.
It is not a zero cost abstraction.
It's a Rust call out, by the way,
do you know, I have a Rust
course on Frontend Masters, man.
I'm so good at this, the self promotion,
definitely not an ad, though.